.\" Manpage for vrfydmn.
.\" Contact c@roessner.co to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 8 "18 Dec 2014" "0.4" "vrfydmn man page"
.SH NAME
vrfydmn \- Milter that rejects a forged or modified RFC5322 from address
.SH SYNOPSIS
vrfydmn OPTIONS -f, --file FLATFILE and/or -l, --ldap LDAP_CONFIG
.PP
vrfydmn -h, --help
.SH DESCRIPTION
vrfydmn is a milter that can check a RFC5322 from address and compare it to a list of domains coming from a flat file or a LDAP connection.
The domains provided should reflect the domains that your MX is a final destination for. If an address with a foreign domain component was
found, the milter can either reject the mail or copy the given address to a RFC5322 Reply-To header (if none already was specified) and it
restores the RCF5322 from header with the envelope-from (MAIL FROM) address.
.PP
The purpose is to reject mail that might be phishing mail due to stolen mail accounts or to prevent mail loss in cases, where the given
address was under DMARC policy, i.e. Yahoo or AOL.
.PP
Web servers that provide hosting for several domains might have dozens of contact forms.  Often they use a given e-mail address provides by
a website visitor to use this address as a RFC5322 from address. If the web server is forwarding mail to a relay server that delivers mail
to the internet, mails might get lost, as a remote MX might enforce DMARC policies.  In such a case, a bounced mail could not be sent back
to the original sender.
.PP
Normal use is on web servers, where you might already provide an enevelope from address with sendmail(8) -f or on the submission (port 587)
side.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -u, --user USER (default: milter)
Run the milter with user USER
.TP
.B -g, --group GROUP (default: milter)
Run the milter with group GROUP
.TP
.B -s, --socket SOCKET (default: inet6:30072@[::1])
Specify the socket the miler is listening on. This may be either an IPv4 or IPv6 socket.
.TP
Examples:
.TP
inet6:30072@[::1]
.TP
inet:10000@127.0.0.1
.TP
.B -p, --pid PIDFILE (default: none)
Specify a pid file, which is created upon startup.
.TP
.B -f, --file FLATEFILE (default: none)
This file typically is a \fBpostfix\fR(8) map, i.e. relay_domains file. It should be a map with 2 columns. First column is the domain (the key)
and the second column represents some value. The value is totally ignored in vrfydmn! If a flat file was given, the file can be refreshed
during runtime by sending the SIGHUP signal and the result can be dumped to syslog (or standard out, if -d, --debug was given) with the SIGUSR1
signal.
.TP
.B -l, --ldap LDAP_CONFIG (default: none)
This option specifies a LDAP configuration file. Settings found in this file will enable a persistent LDAP connection. See \fBvrfydmn_ldap\fR(5)
for the syntax and available options
.TP
.B -A, --sender-alignment
Checks if From: header domain and envelope sender domain are aligned.
.TP
.B -m, --memcached SOCKET (default: none)
A memcached can be wrapped around a LDAP connection. SOCKET is typically 127.0.0.1:11211. Adopt it to your needs, if you want to enable support
for this option.
.TP
.B -f, --fix
Instead of rejecting mails with a forged/modified RFC5322 from header, copy this header to a Reply-To field (if none already exists) and restore
the from header field with the envelope-from (MAIL FROM) mail address. This option is recommended for web servers.
.TP
.B -d, --debug
Run the milter in forground. In this mode, all information concerning an e-mail session will be dumped to standard out. It also will print
out the result of the check.
.TP
.B -t, --test
Enable test mode: Log actions but always return 'continue' to MTA
.TP
.SH SEE ALSO
vrfydmn_ldap(5)
.SH BUGS
Normally RFC5322 from address may of the form mailbox-list. As this is a very uncommon case, the milter currently only picks the last found
address for testing.
.SH AUTHOR
Christian Roessner (c@roessner.co)
